OSDOCS-10211: eBPF flow rule filtering (#74622)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/network-observability-flow-filter-parameters.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc

[id="network-observability-flowcollector-flowfilter-parameters_{context}"]
= Flow filter configuration parameters
The flow filter rules consist of mandatory and optional parameters.

.Required configuration parameters
[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description

|`enable`
| Set `enable` to `true` to enable eBPF flow filtering feature.

|`cidr`
| Provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule, supports IPv4 and IPv6 address format. If you want to match against any IP, you can use `0.0.0.0/0` or `::/0` for IPv4 and IPv6 respectively.

|`action`
| Describes the action to be taken for the flow filter rule. The possible values are `Accept` and `Reject`.

* For the matching rule with the `Accept` action, this flow is allowed to be cached in the eBPF table, with the updated global metric `FlowFilterAcceptCounter`.

> * For the matching rule with Reject action this flow is dropped and not cached in eBPF table, with the updated global metric `FlowFilterRejectCounter`.

Reviewer: Reject should be in ``

Reviewer: and comma after word action

.Optional configuration parameters
[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description

|`direction`

> | DestPorts defines the destination ports to filter flows by. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value, for example `destPorts: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range, string format, for example `destPorts: "80-100"`.

Reviewer 2: this not direction description

Author: copy/paste error

|`direction`
| Defines the direction of the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Ingress` and `Egress`.

|`protocol`
| Defines the protocol of the flow filter rule. Possible values are `TCP`, `UDP`, `SCTP`, `ICMP`, `ICMPv6`.

|`sourcePorts`
| Defines the source port to filter flows by. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value, for example `sourcePorts: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range, string format, for example `sourcePorts: "80-100"`.

> | `ports`

Reviewer: ports section can be moved above sourcePorts.

| Defines the ports to filter flows by. It can be used for either source or destination ports. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value. For example `ports: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format. For example `ports: "80-10"`

> | `destPort`

Reviewer 2: destPort`s`

| Defines the single destination port of the flow filter rule.

> 

Reviewer 2: you are missing port and portRange when u use port it can be either srcport or dstport same applies for portRange either srcPortRange or dstPortRange

Reviewer 2: since u are describing the APIs here then there is no range configs in the APIs
u have sourcePorts, dstPorts and ports and it can take single value or range using `start-end` format

Author: Okay I added [ports](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/74622/files#diff-c1f389cfa44881b2885e5709e478c820d4f98f140dbb208b231639b47ec4d159R41), so it I think this is complete now

:_mod-docs-content-type: REFERENCE
// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// network_observability/observing-network-traffic.adoc

[id="network-observability-flowcollector-flowfilter-parameters_{context}"]
= Flow filter configuration parameters

> The flow filter rules consist of mandatory and optional parameters.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The flow filter rules consist of required and optional parameters.
```
The change to "required" here better matches the table below it. Just a thought.

Author: Great detail 👍

.Required configuration parameters
[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description

|`enable`

> | Set `enable` to `true` to enable eBPF flow filtering feature.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Set `enable` to `true` to enable the eBPF flow filtering feature.
```

|`cidr`

> | Provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule, supports IPv4 and IPv6 address format. If you want to match against any IP, you can use `0.0.0.0/0` or `::/0` for IPv4 and IPv6 respectively.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Provides the IP address and CIDR mask for the flow filter rule. Supports both IPv4 and IPv6 address formats. If you want to match against any IP, use `0.0.0.0/0` for IPv4 or `::/0` for IPv6.
```
Just some ideas to simplify the writing a bit.

|`action`

> | Describes the action to be taken for the flow filter rule. The possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Describes the action taken by the flow filter rule. The possible values are `Accept` or `Reject`.
```
Trying to keep things in present tense, per the [Red Hat style guide](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/).

> * For the matching rule with the `Accept` action, this flow is allowed to be cached in the eBPF table, with the updated global metric `FlowFilterAcceptCounter`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* For `Accept`, the flow is cached in the eBPF table. The flow is updated with the global metric `FlowFilterAcceptCounter`.
```
I'm trying to simplify some of the notes here. I'm not sure if this changes the wording too much.

> * For the matching rule with `Reject` action, this flow is dropped and not cached in eBPF table, with the updated global metric `FlowFilterRejectCounter`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* For `Reject`, the flow is dropped and not cached in eBPF table. The flow is updated with the global metric `FlowFilterRejectCounter`.
```

> * If the rule is not matched, the flow is allowed to be cached in eBPF table, with the updated global metric `FlowFilterNoMatchCounter`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* If the rule is not matched, the flow is cached in eBPF table and updated with the global metric `FlowFilterNoMatchCounter`.
```

|===

.Optional configuration parameters
[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description

|`direction`
| Defines the direction of the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Ingress` or `Egress`.

|`protocol`

> | Defines the protocol of the flow filter rule. Possible values are `TCP`, `UDP`, `SCTP`, `ICMP`, `ICMPv6`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Defines the protocol of the flow filter rule. Possible values are `TCP`, `UDP`, `SCTP`, `ICMP`, and `ICMPv6`.
```

| `ports`

> | Defines the ports to filter flows by. It can be used for either source or destination ports. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value. For example `ports: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format. For example `ports: "80-10"`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Defines the ports that filter the flows. It can be used for either source or destination ports. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value. For example `ports: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format. For example `ports: "80-100"`
```
Does this work? The first sentence doesn't make sense to me. Also, I'm not sure if the 10 should be a 100 like the next example.

Author: Hmmm. I don't think this works. The ports are used as a means of filtering data, they don't actually do the filtering.  I updated it to this: Defines the ports to use for filtering flows.

Ah good catch I was missing a 0.

|`sourcePorts`

> | Defines the source port to filter flows by. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value, for example `sourcePorts: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range, string format, for example `sourcePorts: "80-100"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Defines the source port to filter the flows. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value, for example `sourcePorts: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range, string format, for example `sourcePorts: "80-100"`.
```

| `destPorts`

> | DestPorts defines the destination ports to filter flows by. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value, for example `destPorts: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format, for example `destPorts: "80-100"`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| DestPorts defines the destination ports to filter the flows. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value, for example `destPorts: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format, for example `destPorts: "80-100"`.
```

| `icmpType`

> | Defines the ICMP type to filter flows by.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Defines the ICMP type to filter the flows.
```

Reviewer 4: Note, while I agree with this suggestion based on my ear, if it is more accurate to use "flows by", the ISG specifies that it is not only okay but preferable to end a sentence with a preposition if it is the simplest way to convey the meaning. https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=grammar-prepositions

Author: I think I can reword these instances a little to say "to use for filtering flows"

| `icmpCode`

> | Defines the ICMP code to filter flows by.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| Defines the ICMP code to filter the flows.
```

Author: I updated these to say "to use for filtering flows"

| `peerIP`

> |  Defines the IP address to filter flows by, for example: `10.10.10.10`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
|  Defines the IP address to filter the flows, for example: `10.10.10.10`.
```

* For the matching rule with Reject action this flow is dropped and not cached in eBPF table, with the updated global metric `FlowFilterRejectCounter`.
* If the rule is not matched, the flow is allowed to be cached in eBPF table, with the updated global metric `FlowFilterNoMatchCounter`.
|===

.Optional configuration parameters
[cols="3a,8a",options="header"]
|===
|Parameter |Description

|`direction`
| Defines the direction of the flow filter rule. Possible values are `Ingress` and `Egress`.

|`protocol`
| Defines the protocol of the flow filter rule. Possible values are `TCP`, `UDP`, `SCTP`, `ICMP`, `ICMPv6`.

|`sourcePorts`
| Defines the source port to filter flows by. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value, for example `sourcePorts: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range, string format, for example `sourcePorts: "80-100"`.

| `ports`
| Defines the ports to filter flows by. It can be used for either source or destination ports. To filter a single port, set a single port as an integer value. For example `ports: 80`. To filter a range of ports, use a "start-end" range in string format. For example `ports: "80-10"`

> | `sourcePortRange`

Reviewer 2: api has no `sourcPortRange` or `destPortRange` pls remove
